Zoë,

I am writing this because I have failed in my attempts to create what I thought would be the perfect first year anniversary gift. It's a book, a book that I hope you will love, but it will take some more time for it to be completed.

I started working on this project some time ago, and honestly I thought it couldn't be THAT hard. It's a book right? You just get the words, shove them on a page, job done. I'm not going to moan about the publishing industry here, it's my fault that I took on this task without any understanding of what goes into it. Suffice it to say, creating and typesetting a book is difficult. I've ordered a total of 4 copies of this book now. Their names are "margin error", "black and white", "broken cover" and "InDesign is hard". You will never read them and they are dead to me. 

I have been obsessed with this project, it has stressed me out to some degree but in the way that if you know me at all you'll know I've enjoyed the stress of it. I like being obsessed with things. I want it to be perfect, I want to scan my eyes across the off-white pages and feel like I was discovering you all over again.

Obviously, I can't do that - I can't relive those moments. I can't transport myself to that concrete block and feel the panic when I looked into the abyss of you, knowing that I was going to fall in. I can't listen to the thoughts in my head screaming "KISS HER" as we sat on a wall eating a fatiyah. I can't listen to your voicenotes on a ferry to France, steeling myself because the waters already too deep and whether I knew it or not, I was already in love with you.

The long shadows we cast during those first few months are different from the shapes we are now, we are braided together like some old rope on a ship. Seperate but as close as two can be without merging into each other. I will always have my life, and you will always have yours, but I want you everywhere Zoë. I want you in my family, I want you in my friends, I want you in my home.

I was happy before we met - I knew that I wanted to be with someone, but I didn't appreciate how much was missing from my life. As we stop counting months and start counting years, I see what a chasm was inside me this whole time. I didn't realise I could love someone like I love you, I wasn't aware my brain could make these kinds of chemicals.

Both of us have lived before we met, had many friends, relationships and experiences that we'll never be able to explain to the other. I think a lot of people get weird about these things, as if they like to think the person they're with just popped into existence as soon as they met them. I could ramble about this for hours but I won't right now, all I'll say is that every experience we've had, positive or negative has made us the people that we are today. Every person we've met, every failed date, every crack in the pavement has led us to each other. This is all getting a bit butterfly effect now but my point is, I wouldn't have it any other way.

I find these sorts of letters difficult to write, I have so many thoughts about you but getting them out is hard. It's why I resort to just saying everything that's on my mind to you because I don't want a single "I love you" to get lost in this mess of a brain I have. I think you know this, and all I can say to that is thank you for dealing with my idiotic way of existing with such patience and care.

My whole life has been a succession of failing to live up to what I know I can do, there's an inherent failure brought about with brains like mine. All the ideas, not much of the execution. This letter itself is the result of my failure to give you the present I wanted. I know that if I had just started even earlier, or did "something" better, you wouldn't be reading this right now, you'd be reading the book that I wanted to give you.

But I know you won't care, not really anyway. I know that you know that the book will come when it's ready. I know that me trying to write out my thoughts about you in a letter is something that you will love. I know that spending a whole day together on Sunday means more to you than any object I could ever create.

"The Philosophy of the Home" talks a lot about the kitchen, and cooking. We cook ingredients to change them, in turn the ingredients cook us to change us. Kitchens are places of transition, people and ingredients move from one state to another. Somehow, you got involved in this filing cabinet in my brain and now I often think of us together in kitchens. The thoughts vary, the kitchens change and so do the people. Sometimes we're old, sometimes we're young, sometimes it's just us, sometimes we are hosting.

It's funny when an idea about something seemingly irrelevant hits you at the right time. I know our future won't be confined to the four walls of a kitchen, I know that we have thousands of rooms to explore together. All the same, I can't help being excited to cook with you for the rest of my life.

x